committed to the values of A&M, including
traditions. By that, I mean sometimes shedding a
few tears.
Not treating it just as a academic thing, but a very
emotional, because Aggies feel emotional about
this group. It's not just the wise decisions and
just an academic framework.
I will always love George W. Bush for the tears he
shed when he said goodbye to the state legislature
and said, a job that would cause him to leave Texas.
I will esteem him highly because I love my state
too. I love the University of Texas. I just see them
as two sides of the same apple.
I value loyalty and commitment. It bothers me when
I begin to perceive that they're using people and
using traditions and using things rather than
having them being part of their very being.
I would want them, I'm very concerned about
bringing in people who are antithetical That's
what A&M stands for. And I believe there are a lot of
them in the campus. And generally speaking,
they're in my area in the liberal arts and in the
social studies. I hate to call them social
sciences. I don't think there is any science or
society. It's an art, not a science.
I've only one time been up in the coffee lounge over
there. I think one time I was told I really wasn't
wanted there by somebody who just didn't know who I
was. But Dr. Kramer has invited me to come over
there. Coffee Lounge, where? Coffee Lounge in the
History Building. Oh. See, I've been back four and
a half years. I was here 21 years as a member of that
department. I've been invited to only two events
in four and a half years back. They know I'm here
kind of. I call those people missionaries. that
they think they're doing these peasants a favor
just by being here. And then after doing some
missionary work here, they will return to the
civilized world from where they came and leave us
backward savages alone. I
know and I admire many in the athletic department,
because I think they've done a good job on the
girls' side, because I know that Girl sports are
rife with lesbianism. Just as I know music
departments are rife with homosexuality, male
homosexuality.
And I'm sure it will expand to a graduate degree,
just as soon as the night follows day, that they'll
push for that. But I'm afraid what it's going to do
in the tone of the university.
I guess I'm a troglodyte or something like that, in
that many ways. But I'm an informed troglodyte, or
whatever you call it. I'm a dinosaur. But I'm
willing to change. I'm willing to evolve. But I
don't want to do it too rapidly. If you could make a
major gift to A&M, if you had the capability to give
a million dollars plus, somebody walks up and
gives you a check and you've got to pass it on, but
you determine the use of that money, for what
purpose would you want A&M to use your gift?
It depends on how big it is. Let's say it's a million
dollars plus. Let me say I had the ability to say
that 2,000
young people could go to Texas A&M tuition free,
room and board paid, as long as they were in the
Corps of Cadets. I would do it. The Corps of Cadets
could do the same thing that the military academy
could do. How would you select the 2,000 to receive
that? pretty much like the service academies do,
have to be open girls. Number one, academics.
Number two, they would have to have bluttered in
some sport, I don't know how far it extends this, or
some extracurricular activity, competitive,
in high school. Number three, they would have to go
before some kind of a board to have the
interpersonal relationship.
And they have to have a great deal of paperwork
recommendations. Because I'm giving them a great
deal, a great gift. And I think that would
be one. To what former students, faculty, staff do
you feel most grateful? To what Aggie-related
people do you feel most grateful? Are there some
folks that you now look back and realize that they
touched your life? Roland Bing. Who? Roland Bing.
Roland Bing. I was about to see him after I got my
doctorate, just to tell him what I thought of him.
No, see, he was the battalion advisor. He's an
Aggie. He was here when they started these student
publications.
When he started the journalism department while
he was here, he wasn't a part of it, I don't think.
Particularly agriculture journalism. The first
time they had journalism here as a major. Are there
others? Yeah. Hill. John Hill? John Hill. In
history? In history. Why was he special? Made me
think.
I thought he was a good scholar. Mm-hmm. as opposed
to some of the others. I got very resentful of A&M
when I was in advanced course. I had to write a
30-page monograph on the subject. And I was
totally unprepared to have to write a scholarly
paper footnoting bibliography and things. I
never had to do that in my undergraduate work. When
I got where I was in a position to do that in the small
Christian college, I made sure that every senior
had to write a senior paper They could use some of
their resources, but they had to know the
mechanics. Number two, they also had to go through
a senior oral done by professors from other
schools. And because I learned that a lot of kids
can't learn to talk when asked a question when
they're in a graduate program. Sure. What
happened after World War I, I knew a fine young man
from the University of Texas, William and Mary,
who absolutely froze up and
The first person that asked me in my doctorate was,
when you think of 18th century Virginia, what do
you think of? You can take anywhere and run
anywhere you want to. Just start. Don't say, well,
I don't know. You start. So I just wanted them to
learn that in an unthreatening environment. And
so those are the things I did. the closest to that.
The others were not. Are there other people to whom
you feel grateful?
Colonel Olsen, a wonderful man. Now let's see,
what was his task? He was the senior branch
instructor in infantry last year. Remember his
first name or initials? O-L-S-E-N? S-O-N. S-O-N,
okay. I don't know his first name. First name was
Colonel. What did he teach you? What did you learn
from him?
Leadership, love your troops, care,
understanding,
defend those that you think need defending. I mean
like giving us advice, imparting wisdom I would
say is the greatest thing that he did. But beyond
and outside of ROTC, I think he was part of the
wisdom push. The two people in ROTC are the ones
that you're seeing. John Cook was killed in Korea,
from Carrizo Springs in Aggie. He was somebody I
greatly admired and respected.
Colonel Handy.
making the most out of what he had. Humble,
strong but humble. Saw Colonel Andy go digging out
weeds, personally at the track, center track
around Kyle Field. He had to do all of that, and yet
he was a wonderful coach, had a world-class track
team.
this one and sent it into the Texas Aggie magazine.
The most inspiring moment in sports occurred here
when Jerry Bonin, the son of a faculty member,
crawled across the finish line of the Southwest
Conference trying to beat. That's the most
inspiring thing that I've seen anywhere in
sports. It didn't make world news, national news.
The man just struggled for more than a quarter of a
lap to get across the finish line.
That's a good question. Okay. All right, I've got
only one other question. Is there any important
item we've left out that you have thought of?
Anything we haven't touched on?
Not that I know of. It'll probably come to me. Well,
and then when we edit it, you can come to it. All
right, then the last question is, what feelings do
you carry in your heart for Texas A&M today?
It's complicated, as most things are. I'm a
classical agent.
I value tremendously the memories and the
fellowships
I hate, I don't want A&M and I fear that it's turning
into just another state university. We call
ourselves Sing Sing on the brasses. Now the word is
fear that it's trying to turn into Berklee on the
brasses.
I'd rather be Sing Sing on the brasses with all of
the discomfort and everything else than to be
Berklee on the brasses. But I love the school. I
love it because my grandfather loved it. My father
loved it. My mother loved it. My brothers were
here. I
moved back here from Tennessee. We had a lovely
home over on the hill looking down the thing. And it
was a great move. My wife says it's the best thing
we've ever done, to move back here. We have great
ministry for the Lord here. So it's just
wonderful. being back here and so many things to
do, some of which would not be here if they had him
that I admire.
The George Bush Library, went to hear the play
club. One that great? Yeah, went to Ambrose and
Hick when he came here with that group and that
thing and though How
did he do that? How did that happen? He has people do
research for him. Yeah, yeah. And also the good
ones, they get embarrassed.
Can you summarize that feeling in a sentence or a
closing?
It's been memories through my life. And I've
always strove to build good memories. And I just
have the most wonderful memories about A&M.
That's great.